docs-private/opsdash-docs/ONBOARDING_WORKFLOW.md, before:

# Onboarding Workflow Specification

This document defines the first-run experience for the Opsdash app. It expands 
on the target strategy selector and captures all UX and technical requirements 
needed to guide new users toward a useful initial configuration.

## Objectives
- Help new users understand what Opsdash offers within 60 seconds.
- Capture enough preferences to produce meaningful dashboard data without 
  overwhelming users.
- Offer clear escape hatches (skip, change later) while nudging toward best 
  practices.
- Persist onboarding choices via the existing `/persist` endpoint so the flow 
  never repeats unnecessarily.

## Current Status (0.4.9+)
- ✅ Wizard ships with intro → strategy → calendars → categories → preferences → review sequence.
- ✅ Theme selector, all-day hours input, total-hours summary, and Deck quick-setup block are live; deck settings are emitted via `deck_settings` so the SPA + server stay in sync.
- ✅ Snapshot reminder + preset backup live on the intro screen; Calendars tab exposes “Re-run onboarding”.
- ✅ Reporting cadence + alerts are configurable in the preferences step and included in the review summary (`reporting_config` persisted via `/overview/persist`).
- ✅ Activity day-off heatmap toggle is exposed and persisted (`targets_config_activity.showDayOffTrend`).

## User Stories
- *As a new user*, I want a quick explanation of what Opsdash does so that I 
  know why I should continue.
- *As a goal-driven user*, I want to select the target complexity that matches 
  my workflows (total only, categories, calendars) so that my dashboard stays 
  actionable.
- *As an admin/tester*, I want to reset onboarding state for QA or support.
- *As a returning user*, I want to bypass onboarding instantly, while still 
  being able to change the chosen profile later.

## Entry Conditions
- Triggered the first time `load()` returns without an onboarding flag in the 
  persisted payload.
- Also triggered when the stored onboarding version is lower than the client’s 
  expected version (to allow future expansion).
- Exposed via a manual entry point (`?onboarding=reset` query parameter) to 
  support testing/support.

## High-Level Flow
1. **Intro Screen**
   - Brief summary (e.g., “Opsdash visualizes your calendar workload.”).
   - List of highlights (Targets, Balance, Notes).
   - `Get started` primary action, `Maybe later` secondary (skip sets default 
     profile and marks onboarding complete).
   - If an existing configuration is detected, display a reminder to save a preset first (button triggers the same save flow as Theme → “Save current configuration”).
2. **Target Strategy Step**
   - Presents the strategies described in `TARGET_STRATEGIES.md`.
   - Each strategy card includes: recommended audience, quick bullet benefits, 
     preview illustration or icon, default configuration summary.
   - Selecting a card reveals strategy-specific inputs (e.g., total hours).
   - `Continue` becomes enabled after selection.
3. **Calendar Selection Step**
   - Pulls available calendars and highlights recommended defaults (e.g., work 
     calendars pre-selected).
   - Shows progress indicator (`Step 2 of 4` when categories are enabled).
4. **Categories & Targets Step** (strategies with categories)
  - Users can create/rename categories, assign weekly targets, and toggle weekend inclusion.
  - Selected calendars can be mapped to categories before first load.
  - Category rows inherit suggested colours from mapped calendars (fallback palette matches Nextcloud); users can tweak them before completing onboarding.
5. **Preferences & Automations Step**
  - Theme selector (`Follow Nextcloud`, `Force light`, `Force dark`) with guidance that charts keep calendar colours; applies once onboarding completes.
  - Input for total weekly target (editable for total-only strategies, read-only summary when categories are active).
  - All-day event hours control (default 8 h) so multi-day all-day events align with expected workloads.
  - Deck quick-setup: show detected Deck boards (if the Deck app is enabled) with checkboxes so users can immediately choose which boards surface in the Deck tab. Defaults: all boards visible; tooltips link to Deck if no boards are found. **Shipped** — see `pref-card--deck` in `OnboardingWizard.vue`.
  - Reporting primer: toggle to enable weekly/monthly digests plus reminder cadence. Surface a short explanation (“Opsdash can send a weekly recap and remind you when targets drift”). **Shipped** — persisted via `reporting_config`.
  - Activity day-off trend toggle: explains the new heatmap on the Activity card so users can opt out before their first load. **Shipped** — persisted via `targets_config_activity.showDayOffTrend`.
  - Balance Index Basis dropdown (new): let users choose whether the index is calculated solely from category shares, solely from calendar totals, or by combining both (default “both”). Each option comes with a short explanation under the control and writes `targets_config.balance.indexBasis` so the dashboard renders the requested mix consistently and the backend can echo the selection on future `/persist` calls.
6. **Review & Confirm**
   - Summary of choices: strategy, selected calendars, targets seeded, weekend 
    handling, balance hints, theme preference, all-day setting, Deck visibility, and reporting cadence.
   - `Start dashboard` finalizes choices and writes them via `/persist`.
   - Optional `Back` and `Skip for now`.
7. **Completion Toast**
   - “Setup saved — you can change this later in the Sidebar.”
   - Automatically scroll/focus the main dashboard.

## Data & Persistence
- Extend persisted payload with:
  ```json
  {
    "onboarding": {
      "completed": true,
      "version": 1,
      "strategy": "total_only",
      "completed_at": "2025-01-12T10:15:00Z"
    }
  }
  ```
- When missing or `version < current`, prompt onboarding.
- Store the initial target/weekend/category choices using existing fields 
  (`targets_week`, `targets_month`, `targets_config`, `groups`).
- Include a UI toggle in Sidebar → Calendars: “Re-run onboarding”. — ✅ wired to `createOnboardingWizardState` so the wizard remounts on every manual reopen (0.4.4, 2025-11).
- Persist new preferences alongside the existing payload:
  - `theme_preference`
  - `targets_config.balance.trend.lookbackWeeks` (user can edit later in Calendars → Projection & Trend)
  - `reporting_config` (enabled/schedule/interim/reminders)
  - `deck_settings` (`enabled`, `defaultFilter`, `hiddenBoards`)
  - `targets_config.activityCard.showDayOffTrend`
  - `targets_config.balance.indexBasis`

## Content Requirements
- Intro copy: “Opsdash visualises your calendar time and keeps goals on track.”
- Highlights: Targets · Balance · Notes.
- Use placeholder illustrations/icons for the MVP; final artwork arrives later. No localisation in phase 1.
- Wizard FAQ: “Can I change this later? Yes — open Sidebar → Targets.”

## Out of Scope (v1)
- Team onboarding (track separately).
- Importing historical targets (future enhancement).

## Decisions (2025-03)
- Demo data stays out of scope. Surface the hint “Make sure your calendars contain recent events so charts have data.” during onboarding instead of seeding demo events.
- The wizard inherits dashboard theme tokens once Phase 1 theming ships; no bespoke palette work before that milestone.
- Calendar-day goal conversion remains a backlog item to revisit after the initial onboarding release stabilises.
- Deck + reporting controls live in the wizard but also expose “Learn more” links that open the Deck/Report sidebar panes after completion.

## Next Steps
- Polish copy & illustrations (wizard currently text-only).
- Add missing controls to the preferences step:
  - Reporting cadence + reminders (hook into `reporting_config` and mirror the sidebar defaults).
  - Activity day-off heatmap toggle (sets `targets_config.activityCard.showDayOffTrend`).
  - Balance Index Basis dropdown (category / calendar / both) accompanied by short help text describing what each choice shows on the dashboard and how it affects notifications.
- Update the review screen to summarize reporting + day-off choices alongside Deck visibility.
- QA across desktop/mobile, light/dark themes (see theming spec) after adding the new controls.
- When reporting cadence lands, ensure `/overview/persist` echoes the cadence so clients can drop fallbacks similar to the Deck settings readback.

Commit message:

Allow per-step onboarding saves

docs-private/opsdash-docs/ONBOARDING_WORKFLOW.md, after:

# Onboarding Workflow Specification

This document defines the first-run experience for the Opsdash app. It expands 
on the target strategy selector and captures all UX and technical requirements 
needed to guide new users toward a useful initial configuration.

## Objectives
- Help new users understand what Opsdash offers within 60 seconds.
- Capture enough preferences to produce meaningful dashboard data without 
  overwhelming users.
- Offer clear escape hatches (skip, change later) while nudging toward best 
  practices.
- Persist onboarding choices via the existing `/persist` endpoint so the flow 
  never repeats unnecessarily.

## Current Status (0.4.9+)
- ✅ Wizard ships with intro → strategy → calendars → categories → preferences → review sequence.
- ✅ Theme selector, all-day hours input, total-hours summary, and Deck quick-setup block are live; deck settings are emitted via `deck_settings` so the SPA + server stay in sync.
- ✅ Snapshot reminder + preset backup live on the intro screen; Calendars tab exposes “Re-run onboarding”.
- ✅ Reporting cadence + alerts are configurable in the preferences step and included in the review summary (`reporting_config` persisted via `/overview/persist`).
- ✅ Activity day-off heatmap toggle is exposed and persisted (`targets_config_activity.showDayOffTrend`).
- ✅ Each onboarding step can save its current changes without completing the full wizard.

## User Stories
- *As a new user*, I want a quick explanation of what Opsdash does so that I 
  know why I should continue.
- *As a goal-driven user*, I want to select the target complexity that matches 
  my workflows (total only, categories, calendars) so that my dashboard stays 
  actionable.
- *As an admin/tester*, I want to reset onboarding state for QA or support.
- *As a returning user*, I want to bypass onboarding instantly, while still 
  being able to change the chosen profile later.

## Entry Conditions
- Triggered the first time `load()` returns without an onboarding flag in the 
  persisted payload.
- Also triggered when the stored onboarding version is lower than the client’s 
  expected version (to allow future expansion).
- Exposed via a manual entry point (`?onboarding=reset` query parameter) to 
  support testing/support.

## High-Level Flow
1. **Intro Screen**
   - Brief summary (e.g., “Opsdash visualizes your calendar workload.”).
   - List of highlights (Targets, Balance, Notes).
   - `Get started` primary action, `Maybe later` secondary (skip sets default 
     profile and marks onboarding complete).
   - If an existing configuration is detected, display a reminder to save a preset first (button triggers the same save flow as Theme → “Save current configuration”).
2. **Target Strategy Step**
   - Presents the strategies described in `TARGET_STRATEGIES.md`.
   - Each strategy card includes: recommended audience, quick bullet benefits, 
     preview illustration or icon, default configuration summary.
   - Selecting a card reveals strategy-specific inputs (e.g., total hours).
   - `Continue` becomes enabled after selection.
3. **Calendar Selection Step**
   - Pulls available calendars and highlights recommended defaults (e.g., work 
     calendars pre-selected).
   - Shows progress indicator (`Step 2 of 4` when categories are enabled).
4. **Categories & Targets Step** (strategies with categories)
  - Users can create/rename categories, assign weekly targets, and toggle weekend inclusion.
  - Selected calendars can be mapped to categories before first load.
  - Category rows inherit suggested colours from mapped calendars (fallback palette matches Nextcloud); users can tweak them before completing onboarding.
5. **Preferences & Automations Step**
  - Theme selector (`Follow Nextcloud`, `Force light`, `Force dark`) with guidance that charts keep calendar colours; applies once onboarding completes.
  - Input for total weekly target (editable for total-only strategies, read-only summary when categories are active).
  - All-day event hours control (default 8 h) so multi-day all-day events align with expected workloads.
  - Deck quick-setup: show detected Deck boards (if the Deck app is enabled) with checkboxes so users can immediately choose which boards surface in the Deck tab. Defaults: all boards visible; tooltips link to Deck if no boards are found. **Shipped** — see `pref-card--deck` in `OnboardingWizard.vue`.
  - Reporting primer: toggle to enable weekly/monthly digests plus reminder cadence. Surface a short explanation (“Opsdash can send a weekly recap and remind you when targets drift”). **Shipped** — persisted via `reporting_config`.
  - Activity day-off trend toggle: explains the new heatmap on the Activity card so users can opt out before their first load. **Shipped** — persisted via `targets_config_activity.showDayOffTrend`.
  - Balance Index Basis dropdown (new): let users choose whether the index is calculated solely from category shares, solely from calendar totals, or by combining both (default “both”). Each option comes with a short explanation under the control and writes `targets_config.balance.indexBasis` so the dashboard renders the requested mix consistently and the backend can echo the selection on future `/persist` calls.
6. **Review & Confirm**
   - Summary of choices: strategy, selected calendars, targets seeded, weekend 
    handling, balance hints, theme preference, all-day setting, Deck visibility, and reporting cadence.
   - `Start dashboard` finalizes choices and writes them via `/persist`.
   - Optional `Back` and `Skip for now`.
7. **Completion Toast**
   - “Setup saved — you can change this later in the Sidebar.”
   - Automatically scroll/focus the main dashboard.

## Data & Persistence
- Extend persisted payload with:
  ```json
  {
    "onboarding": {
      "completed": true,
      "version": 1,
      "strategy": "total_only",
      "completed_at": "2025-01-12T10:15:00Z"
    }
  }
  ```
- When missing or `version < current`, prompt onboarding.
- Store the initial target/weekend/category choices using existing fields 
  (`targets_week`, `targets_month`, `targets_config`, `groups`).
- Include a UI toggle in Sidebar → Calendars: “Re-run onboarding”. — ✅ wired to `createOnboardingWizardState` so the wizard remounts on every manual reopen (0.4.4, 2025-11).
- Persist new preferences alongside the existing payload:
  - `theme_preference`
  - `targets_config.balance.trend.lookbackWeeks` (user can edit later in Calendars → Projection & Trend)
  - `reporting_config` (enabled/schedule/interim/reminders)
  - `deck_settings` (`enabled`, `defaultFilter`, `hiddenBoards`)
  - `targets_config.activityCard.showDayOffTrend`
  - `targets_config.balance.indexBasis`

## Content Requirements
- Intro copy: “Opsdash visualises your calendar time and keeps goals on track.”
- Highlights: Targets · Balance · Notes.
- Use placeholder illustrations/icons for the MVP; final artwork arrives later. No localisation in phase 1.
- Wizard FAQ: “Can I change this later? Yes — open Sidebar → Targets.”

## Out of Scope (v1)
- Team onboarding (track separately).
- Importing historical targets (future enhancement).

## Decisions (2025-03)
- Demo data stays out of scope. Surface the hint “Make sure your calendars contain recent events so charts have data.” during onboarding instead of seeding demo events.
- The wizard inherits dashboard theme tokens once Phase 1 theming ships; no bespoke palette work before that milestone.
- Calendar-day goal conversion remains a backlog item to revisit after the initial onboarding release stabilises.
- Deck + reporting controls live in the wizard but also expose “Learn more” links that open the Deck/Report sidebar panes after completion.

## Next Steps
- Polish copy & illustrations (wizard currently text-only).
- Add missing controls to the preferences step:
  - Reporting cadence + reminders (hook into `reporting_config` and mirror the sidebar defaults).
  - Activity day-off heatmap toggle (sets `targets_config.activityCard.showDayOffTrend`).
  - Balance Index Basis dropdown (category / calendar / both) accompanied by short help text describing what each choice shows on the dashboard and how it affects notifications.
- Update the review screen to summarize reporting + day-off choices alongside Deck visibility.
- QA across desktop/mobile, light/dark themes (see theming spec) after adding the new controls.
- When reporting cadence lands, ensure `/overview/persist` echoes the cadence so clients can drop fallbacks similar to the Deck settings readback.
